# Concert robot

This tutorial is aimed at helping to get the concert robot and IK control ready (for dummies).

## Setup

- Clone the concert_description repository (use recursive clone):
```
git clone --recursive https://github.com/ADVRHumanoids/concert_description
```
- Open the `concert_description/docker/run-docker.bash` file in a file editor and remove the `--rm` flag. This ensures that the container will not be discarded on exit.
- Run this bash file. A new terminal will pop up (in a newly created docker container). All the following commands must be executed in this terminal. 

DO NOT CLOSE THE TERMINAL USED TO RUN THE CONTAINER.

## Gazebo

- Split the terminal in 6-8 parts (you can use the `Ctrl+Shift +E/+O` shortcut to split vertically/horizontally).
- You may want to install a file explorer GUI to navigate files inside of the container; `nautilus` is normally more than sufficient: `sudo apt-get install nautilus`.
- Run `roscore` in one terminal. If successful, it will start a ros core service and display a little summary.
- Run  `mon launch concert_gazebo concert.launch [rviz:=true]` in another terminal to launch the Gazebo world with the robot in it.

## IK

- Run `xbot2-gui` to launch the control panel. Press `ros_ctrl` and then `homing` to move the robot to a state from which it is ready to receive commands from the IK.
- Run `mon launch concert_cartesio concert.launch xbot:=true gui:=true` to launch the IK control in RViz. The robot model will have markers which can be used to control the robot in Gazebo. To use this markers, right click them and toggle the "Continuous Ctrl" on.
- Now you can move the markers in the RViz window (by dragging them with the mouse) and the robot will react accordingly in the Gazebo world (avoding self intersection).
- To be able to control the robot's arm in RViz, unfold the right panel there, press "Add" -> "Interactive markers". In the new drop-down menu, locate the "Update topic" option and choose "/tcp_cartesian_marker_server/update". New markers will appear. Similarly, toggle the "Continuous Ctrl" for them, too.

## MoveIt

- Install MoveIt and its requirements: `sudo apt install ros-noetic-moveit` (see more here https://moveit.ros.org/install).

## URDF file

- To create a package, you will first need a `.urdf` (Unified Robot Description Format) file describing the ConcertRobot. You can generate such file by running one python script located at `~/concert_ws/ros_src/concert_description/concert_examples/concert_example.py` (still inside of the container):
    ```
    python3 concert_example.py -o urdf -a gazebo_urdf:=true realsense:=false velodyne:=false use_gpu_ray:=false -r modularbot_gz >> concert_robot.urdf
    ```
    This will generate a `concert_robot.urdf` which you can then use in MoveIt Setup Assistant

### Setup Assistant

- Run `roslaunch moveit_setup_assistant setup_assistant.launch` to launch the Setup Assistant. There you can create a ros package by following the steps from https://ros-planning.github.io/moveit_tutorials/doc/setup_assistant/setup_assistant_tutorial.html

<!-- describe the steps -->

### Setting up catkin workspace
We need to reach the following file structure (_only the most important files are listed here_):
```
├── concert_ws/
│   ├── setup.bash
│   ├── ros_src/
│   |   ├──concert_description/     (this is the repo)
├── ws_moveit/
│   ├── devel/
│   |   ├──setup.bash               (generated by `catkin build`)
│   ├── src/
│   |   ├──concert_moveit_config/   (generated by the moveit setup assistant and placed here by us)
│   |   ├──concert_resources/       (copied from ros_src/concert_description by us)
│   |   ├──modular_resources/       (copied from ros_src/concert_description by us)
│   |   ├──concert_examples/        (copied from ros_src/modular/src/modular by us)
│   ├── build/                      (generated by `catkin build`)
```

To setup the catkin workspace, follow the steps from this "getting started" tutorial: https://ros-planning.github.io/moveit_tutorials/doc/getting_started/getting_started.html. 

Before running `catkin build`, place your moveit package (`concert_moveit_config`) as well as `concert_resources`, `modular_resources` and `concert_examples` inside the `ws_moveit/src/` directory.


### Using the package
Now we can use the `concert_moveit_config package` that we have just created. _Note_: we're still inside of the container.

- `cd ~/ws_moveit/src/`
- `catkin build`
- (`sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get dist-upgrade`) to prevent rviz packages from failing
- `source ~/concert_ws/setup.bash`
- `source ~/ws_moveit/devel/setup.bash`
- `roslaunch concert_moveit_config demo.launch rviz_tutorial:=true`

A new Rviz window will open. There you can plan and execute "actions" you've created in the Setup Assistant.
